times are tough at the moment we have to
save money and we can't afford them
luxury things like going over takeaway
or cooking expensive and intricate meals
so I thought I'd bring back an old
classic one that you probably won't find
to get a five-star hotel or at any
fancy-schmancy dinner parties but trust
me your family will love it
it's shepherd's pie other one-putt chef
okay shepherd's pie real easy to do
first of all we've got some garlic
infused olive oil in our pot which I've
just nice and heated up to that we're
going to add one small onion finely
chopped I'm cheating I'm using sizzle
sizzle sizzle I'm shooting and using
rehydrated onion flakes but feel pretty
is a fresh onion I just didn't have one
today so let that sizzle up in the air
and to that you're going to add 500
grams of beef mince or ground beef as
you Americans will call it now purists
will say this isn't shepherd's pie this
is cottage pie because I'm using beef
instead of land which is the traditional
one but long story short is it's much
cheaper to feed than it is to use lamb
because it's about twice the price and I
just don't think it has as much flavor
so we're just going to brown this meat
right I make is nice browned there as
you can see all this not steamed so to
that we're going to add one cup of beef
stock that just helps to give it a bit
more liquidity because basically what
we're making a savory met some gravy in
it and it comes out of it to dry there's
a little bit of liquid in it so just a
cup of beef stock will do you can use
stock cubes or powdered stock or real
stock if you've got whatever you like so
to that I'm also going to add splash of
Worcestershire sauce big splash
and a good squirt of tomato sauce tomato
ketchup few Americans whatever you like
you can also use tomato paste if you
want but I think tomato sauce is good
it's got a bit of sugar to it so add
slide swiftness give it a bit of a stir
add a little bit of salt and pepper
Oh get in there there we go if you could
smell this at home the smells absolutely
fantastic and we're also going to add a
couple of teaspoons of gravy powder
instant gravy powder that's just
basically going to help us thicken this
so got that lovely sort of meaty gravy
to it we're just going to turn that down
and let that simmer until it started to
nice and thickened up and then we'll be
able to transfer it to our dish
there's our savoury mince it's all nice
and finish there lovely chunky and gravy
yum yum yum so I'm just going to put
this into our baking dish really lovely
this looks very good there we go and
what you need to do is just Pat it down
so it's nice and even and just allow
that to sit on the side to cool for a
while while we make our mashed potato
right time to make our mashed potato now
that's just a kilo of potatoes which
I've peeled chopped and oiled now all I
got to do is give a mash with the mash
up you don't have to absolutely
pulverize it just get the big lumps out
we're just going to add some marjoram to
that about a tablespoon nothing too
crazy and just quickly mix it in wooden
spoon for that I think easier
smells yummy already mother part those
ago they were interested I've got an
audience at the moment the amazing misty
is sitting in the background watching as
I do this those of you or member mhistie
from the Bailey's Irish Cream video
whether she was official taste tester of
the one pot chef show yes there we go
now just to add a little bit of flavor
to this because it's already got a lot
of flavor but I'm going to add a little
bit of Parmesan cheese now this is just
that pregrated stuff that you put on you
the stick getting all night doesn't have
to be anything fancy than to grate
anything for yourself just adds a little
bit of extra to it there we go now we're
ready to top our shepherd's pie I'm just
going to put little globs onto the
shepherd's pie there and we've topped
our shepherd's pie with the mash now
just grabbing a fork just going to be
scoring the mashed potato on top what
that this isn't just for decoration that
this actually helps the potato to crisp
up on top when you put it into the oven
there's nothing better than that nice
crispy potato top that's looking very
good
see a bit of the gradient poking through
that's just makes it a bit extra tasty
now let's just go straight into an oven
180 degrees for about 20 minutes until
it's golden brown on top and serve with
your favorite veggies and there we have
our completed shepherd's pie fresh out
of the oven hot steamy and delicious you
can see that lovely gravy meat
underneath and that fluffy yellow mashed
potato nice and golden on top absolutely
delicious I hope you've enjoyed this
recipe if you've got any questions or
comments feel free to email me at one
pot chef at hotmail.com you can catch me
on skype there's a link on the channel
page and until next time see you later